                                            PHYSICS 



1.According to speual theory of relahvily which one is not an absolute quanhty ? (b) mass  

(a) time
(b) mass
(c) height 
(d) both (a) and (b)


2. Length contraction happens only : 

(a) perpendxcular to direction of mohon 
(b) along the dn-ection of motion 
(c) parallel to direction of motion 
(d) both (a) and (b) 


3. Poynting vector gives :

(a) Rate energy flow
(b) Direction of Polirazitaion
(c) Intensity if electric field
(d) Intensity of magnetic field


4. Find the divergence of the vector yi+zj+xk:

(a)-1
(b)0
(c)1
(d)3



5. Which of the following idenutia is always zero for stab: he1ds ?
(a) Grad (Curl V) 
(b) Curl (Div V) 
(c) Div  (Grad V) 
(d) Curl (Grad V) 


6. The total probability of findmg the particle in space must be ....................
 
(a) zero 
(b) unity 
(C) infinity 
(d) double 


7. What is path difference for destructive interference ? 

(a) nλ
(b) n(λ+1)
(c) (2n+1)λ/2
(d) (n+1)λ/2


8. The phenomenon of Interference is based on : 

(a) Conservation of momentum. 
(b) Conservation of energy. 
(c) Conservahon of momentum and energy. 
(d) Quantum nature of hght. 

9. Which oi the following is known as hbre optic back bone ?
 
(a) Telecommunication 
(b) Cable television 
(c) Delay lines 
(d) Bus topology 


10. Which of the following is a unique property of laser ? 

(a) Du'ectional 
(b) Speed 
(c) Coherence 
(d) Wavelength 
                                     SECTION-B
                                     
                                     
1. What are postulates of Einstein's special theory of relativity ? Using these, derive Lorentz transformation equations. 


2. What do you mean by displacement current ? State the important mnsequenoe of displacement current. 


3. State Maxwell's equation in integral form and explain physical siginificance if the equations.


4. Derive expression for time independmt Schrodinger wave equation. 


5. Distinguish between interference of light and diffraction of light. 


6. Describe the function of core and cladding in optical fiber:




                                      SECTION-C 

1. (a) Obtain Maxwell equations and deduce an expression for the velocty of 

propagation of a plain electromagnetic wave in a medium of dielectic cocstant € 

and permeability μ.

   (b) Define pointing vector. Deduce therotically pointing theroem for the flow of energy in electromagnetic field.


2. (a) Write the Schrodinger equation for particle in a box and solve it to obtain energy Eigien values and Eigen function.

   (b) What is the de Broglie wavelength of an electron, which has been accelerated from rest through a potential diffrence of 150V ?
   
   
3. (a) What do you meant by interference of light ? What are the nessasary condtions for obtained interfrence ? Also explain constructive and destuctive interefrence. 
   (b) What is diffraction of light? Distuinguish between Fresnel'diffraction and the      Fraunhoffer diffraction.
   
   
4. Explain with neat diagram absorption, spontaneous emession and stimulation of radiation. Also explain thepopulation inversion.


5. Expialn any four :
   
   (a) Time dilation  
   (b) Laser
   (c) Holography
   (d) Diffraction grating
   (e) Polaroid





































